Hello and a warm welcome to the course
in R programming. In this tutorial, I
will show you how to install R and our
studio onto your computer.
Alright to get started, we need to go
to the website, we found a www.cran.r-project.org
and this is the
website where you can download R. Now
select the machine that you're using. I'm going
to be using a mac throughout these
tutorials but you can also download the
Windows version here and everything we
talked about will also work for the
windows version and now let's go ahead
and download the correct file. So just select the
option that you like and then you'll be
presented with some packages, usually
it's the one just at the very top. So
let's go ahead and download that, you'll
see it's going to take a few minutes
because it's quite a large package 69
nearly 17 megabytes so let's just fast
forward until it's downloaded.
Alright so the file has been downloaded,
got over here by the way I wanted to
show you that if you're having trouble
downloading the file from right here
there's a button on the left called
mirrors and if you click that button you
can select a different location from
where this file will be downloaded and
maybe you'll find something closer to
you and yeah so if you having trouble
just check out this mirrors button. And now
we're going to proceed with installing
the file, so once again I'm on a mac on
the windows computer this might look a
little bit different but the whole
concept is the same which is basically
installed are on your computer.
Ok install for all users, there we go.
It was quite a quick installation, just
maybe a minute or two and now we're
going to close and now R is installed,
right? So if I look for R, you'll see
that I have R over here and I can
launch R. I'm going to do that just to
demonstrate what R actually is. We've
got this R console here and you can
already start programming R in here,
but the thing is that it is a console
and it's not very convenient. It's not
very nice to work in a console like this.
So what we're going to do is we're going
to close this and we're going to install
R studio on top of that. R studio
will be like like a shell on top of the
console to which we'll make our work much
more convenient and pleasant in R. So
the website you need to go to,
let me reload this page and the website you need to
go to is www.rstudio.com and if
you go to this website, here you can get R
studio. It's a completely free software. So
what you need to do is go to products
and here select R studio. Now here, we
can just download R studio desktop,
that's the one we want and download R
studio desktop open source that's the
one we want.
So here once again, you will need to
select your machine type, windows or mac.
I'm going to select mac
and this is another 60 megabytes so
let's give this some time to download as
well.
Alright, so the file has been downloaded
and now let's go ahead and install R
studio. So I'm going to bring to
double-click R studio and just open it
up and as easy as that, so your
installation process might take longer
because I did originally have R studio
on my computer installed, but
nevertheless once you're done with the
installation you will get R studio
which looks something like this.
Alright, now that we're in R studio,
there's two things that we need to do.
First we're going to set up how R
studio looks. So I'm going to expand this
to full screen mode and I'm going to go
into the settings. On all windows you can see,
this might be in a different location on
a mac pc, you need to go to R studio
and preferences. In Windows PC, it would
also be somewhere at the top so if you
go into preferences,
what do you want to do is we want to
change the appearance. So right now, it's
very white and I find that when you
program a lot it's a bit too bright like
that, like your eyes can get tired so I
prefer a different appearance. Here in
appearance, you can select the type you
like. So there's lots of different styles
and is a preview over here. First I'm
going to increase the font size to maybe
something 14 and here on the right you
can see a small preview of what it will
look like. So let's try try applying that
one. As you can see it's nice and a dark
and that will from my experience, once
again everybody is different from my
experience it will allow your eyes to to rest so
have a look at the different options
that you have. My third one is the
cobbled one and I'm going to stick to
that and maybe actually I will increase
the font even a little bit more. Okay
and the other thing that I would like to
do is after we click ok here, I would
like to follow the very traditional
approach to learning a programming
language where you first, your very first
program is a hello world program. So
let's go ahead and
create one of those. In order to create a
new script, click the button up at the
top over here and select R script and
this brings up a fourth window over here
and now you can type in your code. So
what we want is we want to create a program
that will say hello world and then the
message will appear here. So let's go
ahead and do that in R is actually
very very simple. All you have to do is
open up quotation marks and as you can
see R closes them for you
automatically so you don't forget and
inside these quotation marks and type in
Hello world! Now we're going to save
this program, so click this button save
and give it a name. So my first R
script, save and now in order to run this
line make sure your carriage is on this
line and then go and click this button
up the top run and there you go.
Congratulations! That is your very very
first R script. You have just printed
out the phrase hello world on your
screen and even though this might seem
as a small accomplishment, it's a very
big step towards learning R
programming and once again I welcome you
into this course. We're going to have a
lot of fun along the way and you will
learn tons in this course I can promise
you that right now. And I look forward to
seeing throughout the lectures and until
next time, happy coding.